Edit hello world section and add more images (#2907)
MicrosoftDocs/msteams-docs: msteams-platform/build-your-first-app/build-and-run.md

ms.date: 03/22/2021
ms.topic: quickstart
---
# Create your first Microsoft Teams "Hello, World" app

This tutorial teaches you to build and run your first Microsoft Teams app. You will be creating a personal tab that displays "Hello, World!". 

## Prerequisites

Ensure that you have [set up your Teams development tenant](#set-up-your-teams-development-tenant) and have [installed your Teams development tools](#install-your-development-tools).

### Set up your Teams development tenant

A **tenant** is like a space, or a container for your organization in Teams, where you chat, share files, and run meetings. This is also where you can sideload and test your apps. 

# [Do not have a tenant](#tab/do-not-have-a-tenant)

Join the Microsoft 365 developer program and get a tenant (free Teams test account) that allows app sideloading. The registration process takes approximately two minutes.

**To register for a tenant**

1. Go to [Microsoft 365 developer program](https://developer.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/dev-program).
1. Select **Join Now** and follow the onscreen instructions.
1. In the Welcome screen, select **Set up E5 subscription**.
1. Set up your administrator account. 

>    After you finish, the following screen appears:

Reviewer: This is as per MSTP.

   :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/build-your-first-app/dev-program-subscription.png" alt-text="Example of what you see after signing up for the Microsoft 365 developer program.":::

1. Sign in to Teams using your administrator account.
1. In the Teams client, select **Apps**.
1. Verify that **Upload a custom app** appears.

   :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/build-your-first-app/upload-custom-app-closeup.png" alt-text="Illustration showing where in Teams you can upload a custom app.":::

# [Have a tenant and admin access](#tab/have-a-tenant)

> If you already have a tenant with admin access to the Teams client, verify if you can sideload your apps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you already have a tenant, verify if you can sideload apps in Teams.
```

    
---
### Install your development tools

To help you get started quickly, Microsoft provides development tools such as Microsoft Teams Toolkit for Visual Studio Code. However, you can build Teams apps with your preffered tools as well.

> [!NOTE]
> Teams displays app content only through HTTPS connections. To debug certain types of apps locally, such as a bot, you'll learn how to use ngrok to set up a secure tunnel between Teams and your app.
> 
> Production Teams apps are hosted in the cloud.

**To install Microsoft Teams Toolkit**

1. Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/).
1. Install [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/download) if you plan to build a bot or messaging extension and [create a tunnel using ngrok](../tutorials/get-started-dotnet-app-studio.md/#Tunnel using ngrok).
1. Install the latest version of [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download). 
   > [!NOTE]
   > The toolkit does not support the earlier versions of Visual Studio Code.

1. In the left activity bar, select **Extensions** :::image type="icon" source="../assets/icons/vs-code-extensions.png":::.

> 1. In **Microsoft Teams Toolkit**, select **Install**.

Reviewer: MSTP

   :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/build-your-first-app/vsc-install-toolkit.png" alt-text="Illustration showing where in Visual Studio Code you can install the Microsoft Teams Toolkit extension.":::

## 1. Create your app project

1. Open Visual Studio Code.

> 1. Select **Microsoft Teams Toolkit** :::image type="icon" source="../assets/icons/vsc-toolkit.png"::: > **Create a new Teams app**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Select **Microsoft Teams Toolkit** :::image type="icon" source="../assets/icons/vsc-toolkit.png"::: > **Create a new Teams app**.
```
Please replace the icon with this version: 
![vsc-toolkit png](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/66389316/115794929-c79e0f80-a383-11eb-8446-61c2410574b6.png)

   :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/build-your-first-app/vscode-teams-toolkit-02.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing how to create your app project with the Visual Studio Code Teams Toolkit.":::

> 1. Sign in with your Microsoft 365 development account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Sign in with your Microsoft 365 development account (either the one you just created or the account you already had that allows app sideloading).
```

> 1. On the **Select project** screen, select **JS** (JavaScript) > **Next**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. On the **Select project** screen, go to **Personal app** and select **JS (JavaScript)** then **Next**.
```
Added missing reference to personal app.

   :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/build-your-first-app/vscode-teams-toolkit-03.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing how to configure your app project with the Visual Studio Code Teams Toolkit.":::

> 1. In the **Application Name** box, enter a name for your Teams app.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Enter a name for your first Teams app.
```

    :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/build-your-first-app/vscode-teams-toolkit-04.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing how to add a name to your app project with the Visual Studio Code Teams Toolkit.":::

> 1. Select **Finish**. 
>    Your project is now configured. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Select **Finish** to configure your app project. 
```

> 1. Save your project on your local machine.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
I don't believe this is necessary.

## 2. Understand your app project components

> After the toolkit configures your project, the components to build a basic personal tab for Teams are now available. The project directories and files appear in the **EXPLORER** section of the Visual Studio Code. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the toolkit configures your app project, you have the components to build your "Hello, World!" Teams app. The project's directories and files are located in the Visual Studio Code Explorer. 
```
Changed reference from "EXPLORER" to match the VS Code docs: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/userinterface.

   :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/build-your-first-app/vscode-teams-toolkit-05.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the scaffolding in your app project with the Visual Studio Code Teams Toolkit.":::

> The toolkit automatically creates an app scaffold for you in the `src` directory based on the capabilities you added during setup. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The toolkit automatically creates app scaffolding in the `src` directory based on the capabilities you added during setup. 
```

> If you create a tab during setup, the `App.js` file in the `src/components` directory handles the initialization and routing of your app. It calls the Microsoft Teams JavaScript client SDK to establish communication between your app and Teams. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since you created a tab during setup, the `App.js` file in the `src/components` directory handles the initialization and routing of your app. The file also calls the Microsoft Teams JavaScript client SDK to establish communication between your app and Teams. 
```

## 3. Build and run your app

Build and run your app locally to save time. 

> **To build and run your app**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
In this case, removing for redundancy.

1. In Visual Studio Code, select **View** > **Terminal**.
1. Run `npm install`.
1. Run `npm start`.
  
  A **Compiled successfully!** message appears in the terminal. Your app is now running on your localhost at `https://localhost:3000`. 

> This information is also available in the `README` file of the toolkit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
For simplicity sake, I don't think we need this.

## 4. Sideload your app in Teams

> Sideloading an app is the process of installing apps on your computer, that hasn't gone through the certification process, to appear in the app store and to run on a Windows device. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sideloading an app is the process of installing an app in Teams that hasn't been approved by your admin or by Microsoft. Sideloading is common when testing and debugging Teams apps. 
```
Removed some unnecessary info.

The operating system by default blocks you from sideloading apps. You have to enable sideloading of the apps to test your app in Teams. Before you turn on custom app sideloading for your development tenant, you must have one of the following:

* Ensure to have a Teams account and with admin access.
* Ensure to have a Microsoft 365 development account that allows app sideloading. 

> **To enable sideloading of your app in Teams**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**To enable app sideloading in Teams**
```
Everything related to "enable sideloading" I think makes more sense under the "Set up your Teams development tenant" > "Do not have a tenant". This seems more like setup. By the time you get to sideloading your app, you shouldn't be doing this part.

1. Sign in to [Microsoft 365 admin center](https://admin.microsoft.com/Adminportal/Home?source=applauncher#/homepage#/) with your admin credentials. 
1. Select **Show All** > **Teams**. 

   ![image of admin center menu](~/assets/images/prepare-test-tenant/admin-center.png)

   > [!Note] 
   > It can take up to 24 hours for the **Teams** option to appear. Meanwhile, you can [Upload your custom app to a Teams environment](/microsoftteams/upload-custom-apps#validate) for testing and validation.

1. Go to **Teams apps** > **Setup policies** > **Global** (Org-wide default).

   ![turn on sideload view](~/assets/images/prepare-test-tenant/turn-on-sideload.png)

1. Turn on the **upload custom apps** toggle.

1. Select **Save** to save the changes.

   Your test tenant now allows custom app sideloading.

   > [!Note]
   > Check for issues before sideloading your app using the validation feature in App Studio, which is included in the toolkit. Fix the errors to successfully sideload the app.

### To sideload your app

> 1. Open Teams Toolkit in Visual Studio Code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In Visual Studio Code, open the Teams Toolkit.
```

> 1. Select **App Studio**.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Go to **App Studio**.  
```

1. Select **Test and Distribute** > **Install**.

   :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/build-your-first-app/vscode-teams-toolkit-appstudio.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing how to sideload your app to Teams client with the Visual Studio Code Teams Toolkit.":::

**Alternatively**

> 1. Select the **F5** key to open browser window to install. This will skip the installation process in the **App Studio**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Select the **F5** key, which skips the installation process in App Studio and launches Teams in your browser.
```

> 1. After the installation modal is opened on Teams client in browser, click **Add** to install your app to Teams.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the installation dialog, select **Add** to install your app to Teams.
```

   :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/build-your-first-app/vscode-teams-toolkit-install.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing how to sideload your app to Teams client.":::

> [Note]
> App Studio is also available as a stand-alone app for Teams client.

### Troubleshoot App Studio

**Installation failed**

> If the following error message appears while installing App Studio, verify that the app information is correctly entered:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you see an error message that states, "Something wen wrong. Manifest parsing failed", do the following:
```

> 
> * Something went wrong
> * Manifest parsing has failed 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Added to above sentence.

> **To verify the app information**
> 
> * In Microsoft Teams Toolkit, select **App Studio** > **app Details**, and verify that all the required information is correctly entered.
> * If you have manually edited the `manifest.json` file, verify that the JSON is well-defined in **App Manifest** in App Studio.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* In the Teams Toolkit, go to **App Studio** > **App details** and verify that all the required information is correctly entered.
* If you manually edited the `manifest.json` file, verify that the JSON is well-defined in the **App Manifest** tool in App Studio.
```

**Tab content not displayed**

> Verify that your web app is running. If the web app is not running, go to the terminal and run **npm start**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Verify that your app is running. If it isn't, go to the terminal and run `npm start`.
```

1. Run `npm install`.
1. Run `npm start`.
  
  A **Compiled successfully!** message appears in the terminal. Your app is now running on your localhost at `https://localhost:3000`. 

This information is also available in the `README` file of the toolkit.

## 4. Sideload your app in Teams

Sideloading an app is the process of installing apps on your computer, that hasn't gone through the certification process, to appear in the app store and to run on a Windows device. 

The operating system by default blocks you from sideloading apps. You have to enable sideloading of the apps to test your app in Teams. Before you turn on custom app sideloading for your development tenant, you must have one of the following:

* Ensure to have a Teams account and with admin access.
* Ensure to have a Microsoft 365 development account that allows app sideloading. 

**To enable sideloading of your app in Teams**

1. Sign in to [Microsoft 365 admin center](https://admin.microsoft.com/Adminportal/Home?source=applauncher#/homepage#/) with your admin credentials. 
1. Select **Show All** > **Teams**. 

   ![image of admin center menu](~/assets/images/prepare-test-tenant/admin-center.png)

   > [!Note] 

>    > It can take up to 24 hours for the **Teams** option to appear. Meanwhile, you can [Upload your custom app to a Teams environment](/microsoftteams/upload-custom-apps#validate) for testing and validation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   > It can take up to 24 hours for the **Teams** option to appear. Meanwhile, you can [Upload your custom app to a Teams environment](/microsoftteams/upload-custom-apps#validate) for testing and validation.
```
```suggestion
   > It can take up to 24 hours for the **Teams** option to appear.
```
Removed the second sentence since it seems to state you can sideload before you've finished enabling sideloading.

1. Go to **Teams apps** > **Setup policies** > **Global** (Org-wide default).

   ![turn on sideload view](~/assets/images/prepare-test-tenant/turn-on-sideload.png)

1. Turn on the **upload custom apps** toggle.

> 1. Select **Save** to save the changes.

Reviewer: This is as per MSTP.

1. Select **Save** to save the changes.

   Your test tenant now allows custom app sideloading.

   > [!Note]
   > Check for issues before sideloading your app using the validation feature in App Studio, which is included in the toolkit. Fix the errors to successfully sideload the app.

### Sideload your app

1. In Visual Studio Code, open the Teams Toolkit.
1. Go to **App Studio**.  
1. Select **Test and Distribute** > **Install**.

   :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/build-your-first-app/vscode-teams-toolkit-appstudio.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing how to sideload your app to Teams client with the Visual Studio Code Teams Toolkit.":::

**Alternatively**

1. Select the **F5** key to open browser window to install. This will skip the installation process in the **App Studio** and lauch Teams in your browser.
1. In the installation dialog, select **Add** to install your app to Teams.

   :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/build-your-first-app/vscode-teams-toolkit-install.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing how to sideload your app to Teams client.":::

   > [!Note]
   > App Studio is also available as a stand-alone app for Teams client.

> ### Troubleshoot App Studio

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Troubleshoot sideloading issues
```
The current title is inaccurate. This is for troubleshooting sideloading/installation issues. It does not have anything to do with App Studio issues.

**Installation failed**

> If the `Manifest parsing has failed` error message appears while installing App Studio, verify that the app information is correctly entered.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the `Manifest parsing has failed` error message appears while installing your app, verify that the app information is correctly entered.
```
Fixed. As stated above, this troubleshooting info is not related to App Studio.

# [Have a tenant](#tab/have-a-tenant)

If you already have a tenant, verify if you can sideload apps in Teams.

**Verify that you can sideload your apps** 

1. In the Teams Client, select **Apps**. 
1.  Verify that you can see the **Upload a custom app** option. If you do, this means you can sideload apps. 

   :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/build-your-first-app/upload-custom-app-closeup.png" alt-text="Illustration showing where in Teams you can upload a custom app.":::

---

### Install your development tools

To build this app, you'll use the Teams Toolkit for Visual Studio Code to quickly get started. You can also build Teams apps with any ofyour preffered tools. 

> [!NOTE]
> Teams displays app content only through HTTPS connections. To debug certain types of apps locally, such as a bot, you'll learn how to use ngrok to set up a secure tunnel between Teams and your app.
> 
> Production Teams apps are hosted in the cloud.

**To install Microsoft Teams tools**

1. Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/).

> 1. If you plan to build a bot or messaging extension, Install [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/download) and [expose your localhost to the Internet using ngrok](../tutorials/get-started-dotnet-app-studio.md/#tunnel-using-ngrok).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. If you plan to build a bot or messaging extension, Install [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/download) and [expose your localhost to the Internet using ngrok](../tutorials/get-started-dotnet-app-studio.md/#tunnel-using-ngrok).
```
```suggestion
1. If you plan to build a bot or messaging extension, Install [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/download) and [expose your localhost to the Internet using ngrok](../tutorials/get-started-dotnet-app-studio.md/#tunnel-using-ngrok).
```
```suggestion
1. If you plan to build a bot or messaging extension, Install [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/download) and [expose your localhost to the Internet using ngrok](~/tutorials/get-started-dotnet-app-studio.md/#tunnel-using-ngrok).
```
Should fix build warning.
